<h1 align="center">Masa-Cudalign-APA</h1>

The comparison of biological sequences is one of the main tasks in Bioinformatics. There is a range of exact algorithms that use dynamic programming for this purpose. These algorithms have quadratic complexity in time $O({n^2})$ and can take a lot of execution time depending on the size of the sequences. To alleviate this problem, parallel tools have been proposed. This  Undergraduate Project presents the Quick Pruning Alignment Module, which integrated to the one GPU MASA-CUDAlign parallel tool, modifies the Block Pruning optimization strategy, seeking to speed up pruning and increase the the dynamic programming matrix's discard area. For this purpose, the heuristic aligner BLAST is used to generate an initial score to be automatically inserted into MASA-CUDAlign, which originally started computing with a 0 score. For tests, pairs of 3M, 5M, 7M, 10M, 23M and 40M DNA sequences were used. The results show an improvement in performance for comparisons of large and similar sequences.

### Download Latest Version 

```console
git clone https://github.com/mataugustosp/masa-cudalign-apa.git
```

### Compiling MASA-CUDAlign 

```console
cd masa-cudalign-apa/masa-cudalign
./configure 
make 
```

### Compiling APA Module

In masa-cudalign-apa directory: 

```console
  g++ modulo_apa.cpp -o apa 
```

### Executing APA Module

```console
  ./apa [options] seq1.fasta seq2.fasta 
```

The executing options are:

- -ns ou --noscore: For an execution without the initial heuristic score 
- -t ou --trimmed: For an execution with a heuristic score generated by trimmed sequences
- -f ou --full: For an execution with a heuristic score generated by full sequences

